Where are you successful in the last lecture I challenge you to go ahead and send a request to diss
your L or to a node underdose you are here to store your recipe data.
Now of course that involves more than just sending the request.
You also need to hook up this save button up here.
So let's do this all together now for reaching out to the back and I want to create a central repository
for the methods I will use.
So like a save data method and fetched a method and there are a couple of places where you could implement
these methods you could add them to the recipe servers since you could argue dad.
Well it it belongs to the recipe service right where it's storing and fetching recipes in the end.
You could create an average service for this and that is the route I will take here though.
Again using this recipe service is not necessarily wrong.
I will place it in the shared folder because even though I will only excise it from the header.
Theoretically you could think that we have Abril places in our app to where we want to trigger this
save our data or get our data method.
So here I will create a new file data storage Daut service Dot.
Yes because in there I'm going to export a class which all name data storage service so this will act
as a service.
Having the methods which allow me to store my data on the server.
Now as mentioned once you send a put request to firebase.
So first of all here in my data storage service I need to inject DHC to be servers angler's ships with.
So therefore we need to add at injectable to the service because keep in mind if you want to inject
the service into a service that is what you have to add to that service receiving another service.
So with that added We can now inject HTP service angler ships with which needs to be in order from an
angler HTB and now we're ready to use this here.
Important for the HTB functionality to be used you need to make sure that in your app module you import
the HDD modules so that you edit it here to the imports array.
And of course you need to have to import up here to to lead typescript find this type.
With this we can now start implementing our methods.
And I will add a store data method or a store recipe's method maybe here I want to store all my recipes
and therefore it makes sense that I'm able to reach out to the recipe service.
So I will inject this here to the recipe service like this for debt.
You need to import it here Soledad.
Typescript can resolve to type.
You're assigning here in the constructor but you also need to make sure that you've provided here in
your app module.
Otherwise you won't be able to check the recipe service into another service.
So with that added in the data storage service we can now use the HTP servers angular ships with and
call the put Meffert.
Why what because they constantly want to override the old data on firebase and with firebase and that
of course greatly depends on which back end you're using a port request will trigger the old data to
be overwritten.
Again make sure that this is true for your back and Q Because chances are your back end expects a different
HD method.
Or does something else upon request.
So definitely check out the documentation of your back and the back end you're using in your app to
send the right request.
Here again it's a port request if you want to overwrite data.
The first argument we have to pass here of course is our.
Your.
So that's your L to the project and I not only want to point to that route your L here.
I want to target the recipe's dot Chaisson node and Dot Jason is simply a firebase thing as you learned.
You need to add this dotted Jason at the end of your your L to allow firebase to handle this correctly.
Otherwise you will get coarse errors.
So cross-eyed origin requests errors with Dad we passed to your L but of course we also need to define
what we want to put there and that would be our recipes.
So for this we can reach out to our recipe service and call get recipes here.
So with that we're passing D-grade remember we're getting a copy of our original array with that method.
We're passing the array to the put method.
Therefore the put method will automatically turn this into adjacent format and once triggered.
So once we subscribe to the observable the put method returns this will send the request to the server.
Well let's see if this works as expected with our store recipes method in place here where we can do
is we can go to the hetero component that is where we have to link for saving data here and a click
listener to it and actually call MFL let's say on save data.
That would make sense.
Well and then in the typescript killed off that component I'll implement on save data here and now I
want to access my data storage service.
Well for this to be accessible we first of all need to provide it and I will again provide here on application
level.
So data storage service like this make sure that you also add the import here at the top because typescript
also needs to know where deadlifts.
With this we can now inject this service into the header component.
So the data storage service should be injected here let's assign the type of let's make sure that we
also add the import of this type and with that we can reach out to it we can call the data storage service
and there's store recipes.
And keep in mind this won't do anything.
The method we set up here in the put method we call will only give us back an observable.
So we should return and is observable here if we want to use it.
And you add a component optional we directly subscribe here in the data storage service.
That's of course also OK.
And then your Since I do return you absorbable I can subscribe in the header component.
Now again you could subscribe any data storage service method to then you wouldn't need to return it
if you like to do that.
I like to subscribe here because theoretically maybe you want to show some error or alert in case some
error happened or anything like that.
We're not going to do that here but that would be a typical use case why you want to handle the response
in the component and not in a service because you want to show something in the component here however
I will get back a response of type response and Dad needs.
We imported from an angular HTP and with.
I simply want to log it so that we can see that.
Rick I'm not going to display anything here to the user though of course you could do that.
Well let's see if that works as intended.
If I save this and therefore the app compiles and I go back to the application let me call safe data.
That looks good.
We get back a response and now we have a look at our firebase database.
We say we have the new recipes note since that is what we targeted in our Your L and in the area we
indeed have an array of recipes with description name image pop and the ingredients.
So dad is working great with that.
We're storing data.
The next task is to retrieve it.
Again a nice challenge for you implement the methods needed to make ti get data or the fetch data.
But in your work and actually replaced the existing recipes in our app with the ones you got from firebase